The Joe Rogan experience. How long did it take you to research this?
I, I, you know, I did this partly while I was at a day gig,
so I'm not really sure. Probably three or four years, something like that. Um,
there isn't as much as you would think because, and the reason is, I mean,
there's a fair amount and it's all in Texas, which is good. Um, but there's,
uh, one curious thing about, um,
writing about native Americans is that they don't,
they didn't write anything down. So, so if you're writing about,
say Winston Churchill, I mean,
you can track him from like his bath in the morning to his seventh note to ask
what in his note to ask with, to, to his notes, to his wife,
to all of his proceedings in parliament and everything he ever did. It's like,
moment by moment,
you take someone like Quanta out on the planes and you've got pretty much
nothing. And so what you have, what you do have are, you know,
flashes that are seen by say the S the Spanish originally, or the French,
or Mexicans or Texans and Americans as they come through, you're,
you're seeing them in flashes on as they're presented to you,
because there are no parish records. There's no legal records,
there's no interviews, there's no things like that. That's so stuff.
Yeah. It's so Stein,
but that's one of the weirdest things about where they are today in 2019,
this idea that they don't have really a reservation
or specific giant chunk of land is theirs.
They sort of preserve at least some of this history.
Yeah, no, it's, um, it was a peculiarity of Oklahoma that, that, that it,
that it went that way because there are other states, as,
as we've talked about earlier, who have, who do have large, uh,
large reservations to this day. But, um, yeah, so it's, it's so,
and when you get, if you're writing about them, when you get to, um,
sort of the, the, the post reservation period, so let's say into the 1880s,
1890s, the world does change in terms of, you know,
things are being written down,
Quanta Quanta becomes a big part of his societies,
settling up cattle, leasing deals, he's founding a school board. I mean, he,
he does all these things that, you know,
that you wouldn't necessarily think a glorious chief of the Comanches would do,
but he does those things. And, and those are very trackable. I mean,
you know exactly what he's doing and you can research them.
And in conventional ways.
I was fascinated by the pod rituals to now, was that a natural,
normal part of Comanche life,
or is this something that he adopted from other tribes? He.
Did it from something that had gone on, on the border, on the Mexican border,
but it be, he became the founder of the native American church,
which had a payoti ritual in which he, and it became famous for him. Um,
and so there was a,
if there was this great a place I would really like to go back to in American
history would be to, uh, Quanta's house,
Quanta got his cattlemen buddies to build him. You, first of all,
he wanted the U S government to build him a house. Cause Kona was pustular.
And could I please have a house? I said, no, you can't have a house.
So he went to his, uh, cattlemen and they built in this house,
magnificent house and like 4,500 square feet,
double porch with these giant white stars and the roof,
it became known as satisfies house right there.
That star house it's fallen down, but are now, but yes, in its heyday,
it looked really. So that still exists to this day. It does.
And it's about to fall down and they found, uh, well, this, uh,
a guy who lives in, uh, cache or Lawton, Oklahoma, and who doesn't,
who has been unwilling to accept,
help or money from everybody from the Comanche nation to set right there,
there's always had the stars on the, yeah, I did, because he,
he saw that U S generals had these stars in their collars and he wanted,
he wanted more than they had. Wow. And, but that's,
that's that sits there and cache Oklahoma, and I've been in it,
but it's gotten so beat up now that they've,
they don't let you go in at any more, but it sits there. So, so yeah, so we,
as long as we have that there in 1895, if you went there in the,
I say early 1890s, you, it would have been one of the most amazing scenes.
We had people like Geronimo coming to dinner. Roosevelt came to dinner.
We Nelson miles, the great general came to dinner. He, he had a,
I think it was a Swiss, Mexican cook. He had six wives.
He had had 1921 children, 19 who grew to adulthood.
That house is full of kids. It would have been surrounded by lodges.
And the reason it would have been as cause people,
his own tribe had come in for help money or pay for a funeral or,
or, or going back to the payout, a payoti ritual, which is a healing ritual.
And so you would have seen one of the great scenes in the American west. And,
and people went when he died in 1911,
people found out that he had given most of his money away, um, in,
in to all these people who had come in, asking for his help,
he had in fact helped them.
And given most of his cattle ranching money away that he had made.
Now, this house is owned by one individual. Yes. And so, but,
but it's a historical landmark and no one's preserving it. They're not doing.
I don't know all the details of it,
but it's owned by Wayne Gibson and his sister, as far as I know still,
and they've owned it for a while. They don't want any help.
It was that house was put into an amusement park years ago to preserve it.
That was owned by Wayne's uncle, as far as I know. And so it was taken apart.
It was, was it taken apart? I don't know. They did move it though.
They moved it. So this is not the original location.
Where it's at right now.
The original location was out on what turned out to be later to be a Fort sill,
gunnery artillery range. And so they, they moved it.
And so Quanta's, um, uh, daughter,
I guess it was moved it down into cash and then it was moved one more time into
this amusement park, literally, uh,
that when I went into this amusement park, it was like something out of a,
I don't know, a Spielberg movie. I mean, you go,
I was told the house was back there and I couldn't really believe it,
but so we go in and you're going by these defunct old roller
coasters that are all overgrown with vines, like sleeping, beauties castle,
you know, and, and there's cows everywhere and, and,
and rides and carousels all grow all overgrown.
And then you go through a series of houses that were also moved there,
like Frank James, his house or something, and keep going,
keep going in the back there. That thing was, the house was sitting there. Wow.
Now it is his, he owns it. He's been approached, as I said,
by all sorts of different people,
consortium's of people with money who want to buy it or,
or just save it, you know, from literally the Comanche nation I know,
has wanted to,
and Texas tech has and some Dallas people and any number of people.
And so to my knowledge, thus far,
he refuses to sell or, or to.
Take their help. Is that him right there?
I think that is that's him. Wayne Gibson. Yeah. Yeah. Hey,
so he's a perfectly nice guy. He, he it's it's, uh,
he feels that house is very special in his family and it is indeed very special,
but he won't the last time,
the last tour I got with him as you're going up the main stairwell,
there was a four foot by six inch hole in the main,
in the roof above the main stairwell. I mean,
you can't really have a four foot by six inch hole, no
rain. And the rain would just come through. And, um, but so.
I do to preserve a house like this while still leaving it the way it is.
So it's, you know what I'm saying? Like you would have to replace the wood. Now,
if you replaced the wood, is it still the same house?
Like there's arguments about boats and they've found some ancient boats and
they've done some rebuilding of these boats. Now,
all of sudden you're looking at new wood and the shape of this old boat. Like,
what is it actually.
What is it? So I tell you the first time I walked in there,
which was 15 years ago,
you wouldn't have needed to do that much work to it. 15 years ago,
you would have not have needed to eat.
You would've needed some bolstering for sure.
And the foundation would have needed some work,
but it has gone way downhill because nothing has been done to it.
So now I don't know, but when I walked in there, you,
you really could have a good carpenter and carpenter team and a month
you could have shored that thing is.
Christ. Yeah. That's so.
Sad. And I don't know how much of it, I mean,
a lot of it was the problem was with all those holes in it and stuff,
it started to rot and rot. This rod is different than yeah.
Yeah. And then you would have to actually really replace that would,
so at the end of the day,
it was going to be a certain percentage of it is going to be new,
but at least you could sort of get a semblance of what it was and do your best
to sort of, I mean,
if you had like a real good architect on hand and a real good engineer
and someone from some sort of historical society where they could look at it and
say, okay,
this is what we want to maintain as much of this old stuff as possible while
making sure that this thing can last for more people to.
I think they could still do that, but I I'm, I'm, I'm no expert, but it's, uh,
there's plenty of it that you can save. And there's things like, you know,
that w there's that famous. It's in my book, it's a picture of a,
the table Quantis table there, and you've got the tin ceiling.
That's still there and the floorboards are still there.
And those are all the same, you know, the same, uh, uh, stuff.
So I don't know. I'm no expert on it, but until the owner,
because it's his, until the owner decides to do something to it. Come on, bro.
What's his name? I think it's Wayne Gibson Gibson. Come on, Wayne.
It's ridiculous. He's a lovely guy. I'm sure he doesn't.
He just doesn't want to do that. Yeah. It's a giant part of history.